README.md, before:

# PagerDuty Event Handler
This repo contains source code and a Docker Compose environment for the PagerDuty Event Handler.  
It has been created to allow organisations to send large numbers of event/alerting data into PagerDuty, without events being dropped due to API rate limits.  

We strongly recommend that this application be used with meaningful alert data [(see PD-CEF)](https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/pd-cef), rather than sending noisy/unhelpful alert data structures. 

<kbd>
<img width="1000" alt="Screenshot 2021-11-05 at 18 35 16" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/20474443/148660068-acad1396-fe2a-4860-9644-28b5fe2211ec.png">
</kbd>

## Contents
* [Disclaimer](#-warning--disclaimer)
* [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
* [Setup](#setup)
* [Deployment](#deployment)

## :warning: Disclaimer

> **This open-source solution is not officially supported by PagerDuty - please use this at your own risk.  
> PagerDuty also reserves the right to suspend accounts per [ToS](https://www.pagerduty.com/terms-of-service/) where appropriate.**

## Prerequisites

##### PagerDuty

- Access to a domain: https://www.pagerduty.com/sign-up/
- Valid event routing keys [(Global Rulesets preferred)](https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/rulesets#section-global-rulesets)

##### Docker Compose

- Docker Desktop: https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/
- Compose: https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/
- The machine hosting Docker should be accessible monitoring tools sources over TCP Port `8080`

## Setup

1. Clone repo (via SSH) into appropriate location and enter directory.

    ```
    $ git clone git@github.com:giranm/pd-event-handler.git
    ```

    ```
    $ cd pd-event-handler
    ```
   
2. Update `flask/pd_routing_keys.txt` with valid PagerDuty event routing keys; at least 1 is required.
    > NB: If using Global Ruleset keys, please ensure consistent [event rules](https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/rulesets#create-event-rules) have been configured/replicated

    ```
    $ cat flask/pd_routing_keys.txt 
    R0*********REDACTED************0
    R0*********REDACTED************2
    ```

   
3. Build Docker image for Flask application via `docker-compose`

    ```
    $ docker-compose build     
    nginx uses an image, skipping
    Building flask
    [+] Building 11.7s (10/10) FINISHED                                                                                 
     => [internal] load build definition from Dockerfile                                                           0.0s
     => => transferring dockerfile: 203B                                                                           0.0s
     => [internal] load .dockerignore                                                                              0.0s
     => => transferring context: 2B                                                                                0.0s
     => [internal] load metadata for docker.io/library/python:3.7-alpine3.14                                       1.4s
     => [1/5] FROM docker.io/library/python:3.7-alpine3.14@sha256:a111a535393420437b3641a734ef94bda66805e70424303  3.2s
     => => resolve docker.io/library/python:3.7-alpine3.14@sha256:a111a535393420437b3641a734ef94bda66805e70424303  0.0s
     => => sha256:a111a535393420437b3641a734ef94bda66805e70424303d61302b4b1c23c371 1.65kB / 1.65kB                 0.0s
     => => sha256:feafb9716a22e3ff6ec6d395b718e199c23cb781f9eab57b2dffe6c7484b2290 1.37kB / 1.37kB                 0.0s
     => => sha256:f0c1a69798c72da2158634b7133f6cc6fd9f569f5fc8591d2117ce6a6f745364 8.10kB / 8.10kB                 0.0s
     => => sha256:97518928ae5f3d52d4164b314a7e73654eb686ecd8aafa0b79acd980773a740d 2.82MB / 2.82MB                 0.5s
     => => sha256:8f1c01f59fcc7f7c93b7819b80102de4622e5b448ebf68120a07bc88366cc08a 281.96kB / 281.96kB             0.7s
     => => sha256:464d4fea566338069e77ee2a8d393d2bd5b3aa0a603031b9e486745b03bb6683 10.58MB / 10.58MB               2.0s
     => => extracting sha256:97518928ae5f3d52d4164b314a7e73654eb686ecd8aafa0b79acd980773a740d                      0.2s
     => => sha256:cc898d47eef320ac619094e3a9e88f8d7d453a69658756fd21e31b59678a6161 229B / 229B                     0.9s
     => => extracting sha256:8f1c01f59fcc7f7c93b7819b80102de4622e5b448ebf68120a07bc88366cc08a                      0.1s
     => => sha256:07c63eb0033be3783382a2bd43503b60f18ad87c147322a72fab1922adf75370 2.35MB / 2.35MB                 1.9s
     => => extracting sha256:464d4fea566338069e77ee2a8d393d2bd5b3aa0a603031b9e486745b03bb6683                      0.6s
     => => extracting sha256:cc898d47eef320ac619094e3a9e88f8d7d453a69658756fd21e31b59678a6161                      0.0s
     => => extracting sha256:07c63eb0033be3783382a2bd43503b60f18ad87c147322a72fab1922adf75370                      0.3s
     => [internal] load build context                                                                              0.0s
     => => transferring context: 6.64kB                                                                            0.0s
     => [2/5] WORKDIR /opt                                                                                         0.3s
     => [3/5] COPY requirements.txt ./                                                                             0.0s
     => [4/5] COPY app.py ./                                                                                       0.0s
     => [5/5] RUN pip install --no-cache-dir -r requirements.txt                                                   6.4s
     => exporting to image                                                                                         0.3s
     => => exporting layers                                                                                        0.3s
     => => writing image sha256:7e45c58d7bf528c17beb4675fb414959e356f89433c4618bcc648375d88f1e10                   0.0s
     => => naming to docker.io/library/pd-event-handler_flask
   ```
   
4. Update monitoring tools to send alerts/events via Webhook to the host machine via `http://HOST_HERE:8080`  
The alert JSON structure should ideally conform to [PagerDuty's Common Event Format (PD-CEF)](https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/pd-cef).
   
## Deployment

Once you have set up the environment above, you can use the helper script `start.sh` to bootstrap the environment.  
This will also pull the [NGINX](https://www.nginx.com/resources/glossary/nginx/) Docker image if it's not available locally.

### Start Event Handler

The `start.sh` will verify the number of routing keys available and generate the relevant NGINX configuration.  
It also deploys the relevant Docker containers and provides an entrypoint on `localhost:8080` to accept incoming events.
```
$ ./start.sh 
Creating network "pd-event-handler_default" with the default driver
Pulling nginx (nginx:1.20-alpine)...
1.20-alpine: Pulling from library/nginx
97518928ae5f: Already exists
a15dfa83ed30: Pull complete
acae0b19bbc1: Pull complete
fd4282442678: Pull complete
b521ea0d9e3f: Pull complete
b3282d03aa58: Pull complete
Digest: sha256:74694f2de64c44787a81f0554aa45b281e468c0c58b8665fafceda624d31e556
Status: Downloaded newer image for nginx:1.20-alpine
Creating pd-event-handler_flask_1 ... done
Creating pd-event-handler_flask_2 ... done
```

### Verify Status of Event Handler

The following commands can be used to check the status of the event handler:
- `docker ps -a`
- `docker logs <container name>`
- `docker stats`

#### Example: docker ps -a

```
$ docker ps -a
CONTAINER ID   IMAGE                    COMMAND                  CREATED          STATUS          PORTS                                               NAMES
47174793f685   nginx:1.20-alpine        "/docker-entrypoint.…"   37 minutes ago   Up 37 minutes   80/tcp, 0.0.0.0:8080->8080/tcp, :::8080->8080/tcp   nginx
d8301cdf2272   pd-event-handler_flask   "python app.py"          37 minutes ago   Up 37 minutes   5000/tcp                                            pd-event-handler_flask_1
b1df3b666bd0   pd-event-handler_flask   "python app.py"          37 minutes ago   Up 37 minutes   5000/tcp                                            pd-event-handler_flask_2
```

#### Example: docker logs nginx

Initialisation:
```
$ docker logs nginx
/docker-entrypoint.sh: /docker-entrypoint.d/ is not empty, will attempt to perform configuration
/docker-entrypoint.sh: Looking for shell scripts in /docker-entrypoint.d/
/docker-entrypoint.sh: Launching /docker-entrypoint.d/10-listen-on-ipv6-by-default.sh
10-listen-on-ipv6-by-default.sh: info: Getting the checksum of /etc/nginx/conf.d/default.conf
10-listen-on-ipv6-by-default.sh: info: Enabled listen on IPv6 in /etc/nginx/conf.d/default.conf
/docker-entrypoint.sh: Launching /docker-entrypoint.d/20-envsubst-on-templates.sh
/docker-entrypoint.sh: Launching /docker-entrypoint.d/30-tune-worker-processes.sh
/docker-entrypoint.sh: Configuration complete; ready for start up
```

Processed alert:
```
192.168.144.1 - - [08/Jan/2022:19:20:45 +0000] "POST / HTTP/1.1" 202 308 "-" "PostmanRuntime/7.28.4"
```

#### Example: docker logs pd-event-handler_flask_1

Initialisation:
```
$ docker logs pd-event-handler_flask_1
2022-01-08T18:37:50.249805+00:00 | INFO | app | Running on container pd-event-handler_flask_1 (ID: d8301cdf2272)
2022-01-08T18:37:50.253252+00:00 | INFO | app | Using Routing Key: R0*********REDACTED************0
2022-01-08T18:37:51.078887+00:00 | INFO | app | Routing key verified
2022-01-08T18:37:51.081539+00:00 | INFO | app | Queue is empty - currently awaiting requests
2022-01-08T18:37:51.125738+00:00 | INFO | wasyncore | Serving on http://0.0.0.0:5000
```

Processed alert:
```
2022-01-08T19:20:45.460663+00:00 | INFO | app | Enqueued event: {'payload': {'summary': 'Server ldn-p3476z offline', 'severity': 'critical', 'component': 'ldn-p3476z', 'source': 'Elastic', 'group': 'london', 'class': 'alert', 'custom_details': {'health': '0'}}, 'dedup_key': '', 'event_action': 'trigger'}
2022-01-08T19:20:45.461489+00:00 | INFO | app | Current queue size: 1
2022-01-08T19:20:45.461843+00:00 | INFO | app | Sending PD event: {'payload': {'summary': 'Server ldn-p3476z offline', 'severity': 'critical', 'component': 'ldn-p3476z', 'source': 'Elastic', 'group': 'london', 'class': 'alert', 'custom_details': {'health': '0'}}, 'dedup_key': '', 'event_action': 'trigger', 'routing_key': 'R0*********REDACTED************0'}
2022-01-08T19:20:46.267280+00:00 | INFO | app | PD server response: {'status': 'success', 'message': 'Event processed', 'dedup_key': 'f9d383d1282c4987b5ea0e8830d862da'}
2022-01-08T19:20:46.267463+00:00 | INFO | app | Queue is empty - currently awaiting requests
```

#### Example: docker stats
This is an interactive shell command which shows live stats of your Docker runtime.
> High CPU (~100%) is expected behaviour for *idle* Flask instances; this drops when events are being processed.

```
CONTAINER ID   NAME                       CPU %     MEM USAGE / LIMIT    MEM %     NET I/O           BLOCK I/O     PIDS
47174793f685   nginx                      0.00%     6.395MiB / 11.7GiB   0.05%     3.59kB / 2.25kB   0B / 8.19kB   9
d8301cdf2272   pd-event-handler_flask_1   100.50%   23.25MiB / 11.7GiB   0.19%     6.76kB / 2kB      0B / 0B       6
b1df3b666bd0   pd-event-handler_flask_2   100.70%   23.73MiB / 11.7GiB   0.20%     12.7kB / 5kB      0B / 0B       6
```

### Stop Event Handler

```
$ docker-compose down
Stopping nginx                    ... done
Stopping pd-event-handler_flask_1 ... done
Stopping pd-event-handler_flask_2 ... done
Removing nginx                    ... done
Removing pd-event-handler_flask_1 ... done
Removing pd-event-handler_flask_2 ... done
Removing network pd-event-handler_default
```

```
$ docker ps -a 
CONTAINER ID   IMAGE     COMMAND   CREATED   STATUS    PORTS     NAMES
```

Commit message:

Added note around OS dependent mounts for Docker socket

README.md, after:

# PagerDuty Event Handler
This repo contains source code and a Docker Compose environment for the PagerDuty Event Handler.  
It has been created to allow organisations to send large numbers of event/alerting data into PagerDuty, without events being dropped due to API rate limits.  

We strongly recommend that this application be used with meaningful alert data [(see PD-CEF)](https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/pd-cef), rather than sending noisy/unhelpful alert data structures. 

<kbd>
<img width="1000" alt="Screenshot 2021-11-05 at 18 35 16" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/20474443/148660068-acad1396-fe2a-4860-9644-28b5fe2211ec.png">
</kbd>

## Contents
* [Disclaimer](#-warning--disclaimer)
* [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
* [Setup](#setup)
* [Deployment](#deployment)

## :warning: Disclaimer

> **This open-source solution is not officially supported by PagerDuty - please use this at your own risk.  
> PagerDuty also reserves the right to suspend accounts per [ToS](https://www.pagerduty.com/terms-of-service/) where appropriate.**

## Prerequisites

##### PagerDuty

- Access to a domain: https://www.pagerduty.com/sign-up/
- Valid event routing keys [(Global Rulesets preferred)](https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/rulesets#section-global-rulesets)

##### Docker Compose

- Docker Desktop: https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/
- Compose: https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/
- The machine hosting Docker should be accessible monitoring tools sources over TCP Port `8080`

## Setup

1. Clone repo (via SSH) into appropriate location and enter directory.

    ```
    $ git clone git@github.com:giranm/pd-event-handler.git
    ```

    ```
    $ cd pd-event-handler
    ```
   
2. Update `flask/pd_routing_keys.txt` with valid PagerDuty event routing keys; at least 1 is required.
    > NB: If using Global Ruleset keys, please ensure consistent [event rules](https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/rulesets#create-event-rules) have been configured/replicated

    ```
    $ cat flask/pd_routing_keys.txt 
    R0*********REDACTED************0
    R0*********REDACTED************2
    ```

   
3. Build Docker image for Flask application via `docker-compose`

    ```
    $ docker-compose build     
    nginx uses an image, skipping
    Building flask
    [+] Building 11.7s (10/10) FINISHED                                                                                 
     => [internal] load build definition from Dockerfile                                                           0.0s
     => => transferring dockerfile: 203B                                                                           0.0s
     => [internal] load .dockerignore                                                                              0.0s
     => => transferring context: 2B                                                                                0.0s
     => [internal] load metadata for docker.io/library/python:3.7-alpine3.14                                       1.4s
     => [1/5] FROM docker.io/library/python:3.7-alpine3.14@sha256:a111a535393420437b3641a734ef94bda66805e70424303  3.2s
     => => resolve docker.io/library/python:3.7-alpine3.14@sha256:a111a535393420437b3641a734ef94bda66805e70424303  0.0s
     => => sha256:a111a535393420437b3641a734ef94bda66805e70424303d61302b4b1c23c371 1.65kB / 1.65kB                 0.0s
     => => sha256:feafb9716a22e3ff6ec6d395b718e199c23cb781f9eab57b2dffe6c7484b2290 1.37kB / 1.37kB                 0.0s
     => => sha256:f0c1a69798c72da2158634b7133f6cc6fd9f569f5fc8591d2117ce6a6f745364 8.10kB / 8.10kB                 0.0s
     => => sha256:97518928ae5f3d52d4164b314a7e73654eb686ecd8aafa0b79acd980773a740d 2.82MB / 2.82MB                 0.5s
     => => sha256:8f1c01f59fcc7f7c93b7819b80102de4622e5b448ebf68120a07bc88366cc08a 281.96kB / 281.96kB             0.7s
     => => sha256:464d4fea566338069e77ee2a8d393d2bd5b3aa0a603031b9e486745b03bb6683 10.58MB / 10.58MB               2.0s
     => => extracting sha256:97518928ae5f3d52d4164b314a7e73654eb686ecd8aafa0b79acd980773a740d                      0.2s
     => => sha256:cc898d47eef320ac619094e3a9e88f8d7d453a69658756fd21e31b59678a6161 229B / 229B                     0.9s
     => => extracting sha256:8f1c01f59fcc7f7c93b7819b80102de4622e5b448ebf68120a07bc88366cc08a                      0.1s
     => => sha256:07c63eb0033be3783382a2bd43503b60f18ad87c147322a72fab1922adf75370 2.35MB / 2.35MB                 1.9s
     => => extracting sha256:464d4fea566338069e77ee2a8d393d2bd5b3aa0a603031b9e486745b03bb6683                      0.6s
     => => extracting sha256:cc898d47eef320ac619094e3a9e88f8d7d453a69658756fd21e31b59678a6161                      0.0s
     => => extracting sha256:07c63eb0033be3783382a2bd43503b60f18ad87c147322a72fab1922adf75370                      0.3s
     => [internal] load build context                                                                              0.0s
     => => transferring context: 6.64kB                                                                            0.0s
     => [2/5] WORKDIR /opt                                                                                         0.3s
     => [3/5] COPY requirements.txt ./                                                                             0.0s
     => [4/5] COPY app.py ./                                                                                       0.0s
     => [5/5] RUN pip install --no-cache-dir -r requirements.txt                                                   6.4s
     => exporting to image                                                                                         0.3s
     => => exporting layers                                                                                        0.3s
     => => writing image sha256:7e45c58d7bf528c17beb4675fb414959e356f89433c4618bcc648375d88f1e10                   0.0s
     => => naming to docker.io/library/pd-event-handler_flask
   ```
   
4. Update monitoring tools to send alerts/events via Webhook to the host machine via `http://HOST_HERE:8080`  
The alert JSON structure should ideally conform to [PagerDuty's Common Event Format (PD-CEF)](https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/pd-cef).
   
## Deployment

Once you have set up the environment above, you can use the helper script `start.sh` to bootstrap the environment. This will also pull the [NGINX](https://www.nginx.com/resources/glossary/nginx/) Docker image if it's not available locally.

> NB: Ensure the right volume is mounted for the Flask service under `docker-compose.yaml` (OS Dependent)

### Start Event Handler

The `start.sh` will verify the number of routing keys available and generate the relevant NGINX configuration.  
It also deploys the relevant Docker containers and provides an entrypoint on `localhost:8080` to accept incoming events.
```
$ ./start.sh 
Creating network "pd-event-handler_default" with the default driver
Pulling nginx (nginx:1.20-alpine)...
1.20-alpine: Pulling from library/nginx
97518928ae5f: Already exists
a15dfa83ed30: Pull complete
acae0b19bbc1: Pull complete
fd4282442678: Pull complete
b521ea0d9e3f: Pull complete
b3282d03aa58: Pull complete
Digest: sha256:74694f2de64c44787a81f0554aa45b281e468c0c58b8665fafceda624d31e556
Status: Downloaded newer image for nginx:1.20-alpine
Creating pd-event-handler_flask_1 ... done
Creating pd-event-handler_flask_2 ... done
```

### Verify Status of Event Handler

The following commands can be used to check the status of the event handler:
- `docker ps -a`
- `docker logs <container name>`
- `docker stats`

#### Example: docker ps -a

```
$ docker ps -a
CONTAINER ID   IMAGE                    COMMAND                  CREATED          STATUS          PORTS                                               NAMES
47174793f685   nginx:1.20-alpine        "/docker-entrypoint.…"   37 minutes ago   Up 37 minutes   80/tcp, 0.0.0.0:8080->8080/tcp, :::8080->8080/tcp   nginx
d8301cdf2272   pd-event-handler_flask   "python app.py"          37 minutes ago   Up 37 minutes   5000/tcp                                            pd-event-handler_flask_1
b1df3b666bd0   pd-event-handler_flask   "python app.py"          37 minutes ago   Up 37 minutes   5000/tcp                                            pd-event-handler_flask_2
```

#### Example: docker logs nginx

Initialisation:
```
$ docker logs nginx
/docker-entrypoint.sh: /docker-entrypoint.d/ is not empty, will attempt to perform configuration
/docker-entrypoint.sh: Looking for shell scripts in /docker-entrypoint.d/
/docker-entrypoint.sh: Launching /docker-entrypoint.d/10-listen-on-ipv6-by-default.sh
10-listen-on-ipv6-by-default.sh: info: Getting the checksum of /etc/nginx/conf.d/default.conf
10-listen-on-ipv6-by-default.sh: info: Enabled listen on IPv6 in /etc/nginx/conf.d/default.conf
/docker-entrypoint.sh: Launching /docker-entrypoint.d/20-envsubst-on-templates.sh
/docker-entrypoint.sh: Launching /docker-entrypoint.d/30-tune-worker-processes.sh
/docker-entrypoint.sh: Configuration complete; ready for start up
```

Processed alert:
```
192.168.144.1 - - [08/Jan/2022:19:20:45 +0000] "POST / HTTP/1.1" 202 308 "-" "PostmanRuntime/7.28.4"
```

#### Example: docker logs pd-event-handler_flask_1

Initialisation:
```
$ docker logs pd-event-handler_flask_1
2022-01-08T18:37:50.249805+00:00 | INFO | app | Running on container pd-event-handler_flask_1 (ID: d8301cdf2272)
2022-01-08T18:37:50.253252+00:00 | INFO | app | Using Routing Key: R0*********REDACTED************0
2022-01-08T18:37:51.078887+00:00 | INFO | app | Routing key verified
2022-01-08T18:37:51.081539+00:00 | INFO | app | Queue is empty - currently awaiting requests
2022-01-08T18:37:51.125738+00:00 | INFO | wasyncore | Serving on http://0.0.0.0:5000
```

Processed alert:
```
2022-01-08T19:20:45.460663+00:00 | INFO | app | Enqueued event: {'payload': {'summary': 'Server ldn-p3476z offline', 'severity': 'critical', 'component': 'ldn-p3476z', 'source': 'Elastic', 'group': 'london', 'class': 'alert', 'custom_details': {'health': '0'}}, 'dedup_key': '', 'event_action': 'trigger'}
2022-01-08T19:20:45.461489+00:00 | INFO | app | Current queue size: 1
2022-01-08T19:20:45.461843+00:00 | INFO | app | Sending PD event: {'payload': {'summary': 'Server ldn-p3476z offline', 'severity': 'critical', 'component': 'ldn-p3476z', 'source': 'Elastic', 'group': 'london', 'class': 'alert', 'custom_details': {'health': '0'}}, 'dedup_key': '', 'event_action': 'trigger', 'routing_key': 'R0*********REDACTED************0'}
2022-01-08T19:20:46.267280+00:00 | INFO | app | PD server response: {'status': 'success', 'message': 'Event processed', 'dedup_key': 'f9d383d1282c4987b5ea0e8830d862da'}
2022-01-08T19:20:46.267463+00:00 | INFO | app | Queue is empty - currently awaiting requests
```

#### Example: docker stats
This is an interactive shell command which shows live stats of your Docker runtime.
> High CPU (~100%) is expected behaviour for *idle* Flask instances; this drops when events are being processed.

```
CONTAINER ID   NAME                       CPU %     MEM USAGE / LIMIT    MEM %     NET I/O           BLOCK I/O     PIDS
47174793f685   nginx                      0.00%     6.395MiB / 11.7GiB   0.05%     3.59kB / 2.25kB   0B / 8.19kB   9
d8301cdf2272   pd-event-handler_flask_1   100.50%   23.25MiB / 11.7GiB   0.19%     6.76kB / 2kB      0B / 0B       6
b1df3b666bd0   pd-event-handler_flask_2   100.70%   23.73MiB / 11.7GiB   0.20%     12.7kB / 5kB      0B / 0B       6
```

### Stop Event Handler

```
$ docker-compose down
Stopping nginx                    ... done
Stopping pd-event-handler_flask_1 ... done
Stopping pd-event-handler_flask_2 ... done
Removing nginx                    ... done
Removing pd-event-handler_flask_1 ... done
Removing pd-event-handler_flask_2 ... done
Removing network pd-event-handler_default
```

```
$ docker ps -a 
CONTAINER ID   IMAGE     COMMAND   CREATED   STATUS    PORTS     NAMES
```
